We have heard a plenty of rumours about the upcoming iPhone, one most common rumor about the iPhone 6 is that it will feature a larger display and the upcoming iOS 8. These rumors sound promising as the current trend in smartphones is having a larger display. We have seen smartphones with display as large as 6.8-inches, that’s close to the size of a tablet. Smartphones with 5.5-inch and 6-inch display has now become common, and thus to keep up with the competition Apple must adopt the large display concept on its iPhone series of phones.

Apple was stuck to its philosophy of one hand usage and stayed away from making bigger phones, last year however Apple moved one step ahead and increased the display size from 3.5-inches to 4-inches. With that 4-inch display on iPhone 5 and iPhone 5c, Apple increased the length of the display and maintained the same breadth of the phone. But now its time Apple make some software innovation to serve single hand usage and increase the display size to 5-inches and above to lead in the competition of the smartphones.

Currently Samsung, HTC, LG and other manufacturers have smartphones varying from 4-inches to 6-inches in display size. These manufacturers are also successful to some extent in attracting Apple users and making them switch to Android phones. The number is not very huge but then it impacts the company, so if Apple wants to force Android users switch to Apple it must bring the large display phones now.

Multiple leaks from credible sources has made us believe that the upcoming iPhone will come in two size variants one with 4.8-inch display and another with 5.7-inch display. With displays these big it is highly unlikely for the physical design to complement single hand usage thus we can expect some software changes and UI innovation from Apple in the upcoming iOS to support one hand usage. There have been talks of new set of sensors which would intelligently recognize single hand usage and change the UI accordingly. If Apple succeeds in making these sensors, then it wont be difficult for the company to make the iOS to have the single hand usage feature.

But again nothing is yet confirmed officially from Apple and thus we recommend you take this bit of information in small proportions. These rumors may or may not turn out to be true, stay tuned to Sulekha for more updates.
