The domestic Indian smartphone market has seen a lot of action in the last few months with the release of some of the big name smartphones from internationally famed manufacturers such as Samsung, Sony and Apple. However, the biggest competition has only recently been forged with the arrival of the Lenovo Vibe Z. But why is the Vibe Z such a dangerous competition for all its competitors? That's probably because the device offers some of the greatest specifications you will ever come across in recent times. To begin with, the device comes with a 5.5-inch display, Snapdragon 800 quad core SoC clocked at 2.2GH and a 5-megapixel front camera that's equipped with an 84° lens for wide-angle shots. Going through the offered specifications that come via the device, the Vibe Z features a full HD 5.5-inches IPS LCD capacitive touchscreen display which churns out a pixel density of 401 ppi. It is also protected by Corning Gorilla Glass 3. The latest Vibe Z also comes with a powerful Qualcomm chipset, The lenovo Vibe Z is powered by a Snapdragon 800 processor which is a quad core SoC clocked at 2.2GHz. There is also the presence of Adreno 330 graphic unit which will give a great overall graphical output and experience. Also add 2 GB of RAM and a Google-based Android OS, v4.3 (Jelly Bean) OS. Apart from that, the handset also features a massive 13 MP rear camera with autofocus, f1.8 aperture lens and LED flash, which is capable of shooting pictures at 4128 x 3096 pixels quality. On the front, the 5 MP front camera that's equipped with an 84° lens for wide-angle shots will be easy for taking selfies and making video calls. But aside the specifications, there's also a dedicated video and multitasking aspect of the device that stands out among from the rest in the market. The Lenovo Vibe Z comes with three capacitive buttons below the display, the home button, back button and the menu buttons, which also works as the multitasking button. Lenovo knows that the Vibe Z is basically a phablet and so the company has fitted the device with a number of different handy features - with one of them being the multitasking window for easier access to apps and services. The feature offers a mini pop up of the app on front, the size of which users can increase or decrease, move it around and close it via small buttons. Users can have a maximum of two apps running side by side. The feature supports a host of popular apps on your phone such as WhatsApp, YouTube, Instagram and more. And with a Quad-core 2.2 GHz Krait 400 processor fitted inside with a more than capable 3000 mAh battery juicing up the device, it becomes more than easy to check out videos in 4K resolution while multitasking via the previously discussed multitasking window. Speaking about the 4K resolution videos, for those who are not aware as to what it actually means, it points to a generic term for a content having horizontal resolution on the order of 4,000 pixels. The 4K standard currently exists for digital television and digital cinematography - and to have that kind of a standard on a handheld smartphone is just amazing. Price The Lenovo Vibe Z was unveiled in India at the price of Rs. 35,999. However the device will now be available at an effective price of Rs. 32,960. So what are the devices biggest smartphone rivals in the market at the moment? Let's take a closer look.

Read more at: http://www.gizbot.com/mobile/lenovo-vibe-z-india-price-competitors-features-news-016306-pg1.html