apan has no plans to issue a new statement over its military’s use of sex slaves and a 1993 apology wont’ be revised, the government’s top spokesman said after an aide to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe raised the possibility yesterday.

South Korea said it could not accept Koichi Hagiuda’s comments calling for a fresh statement if new facts emerged during the verification of the 1993 Kono apology over the use of so-called comfort women in the 1930s and 1940s. Hagiuda’s remarks came as Japan prepared for its first summit with South Korea in almost two years, amid disputes over territory and historical perceptions.

Replacing the Kono Statement “won’t happen,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters in Tokyo today. “I have never heard the prime minister say that.” He added that Hagiuda had been speaking in a personal capacity.

Abe is scheduled to meet with South Korean President Park Geun Hye and U.S. President Barack Obama on the sidelines of a conference on nuclear security being held in the Hague today and tomorrow. The event will be Abe’s first formal summit with Park. The U.S. has pushed its two main Asian allies to reconcile as it seeks to build a regional bulwark against a rising China.

“We will not revise the Kono Statement -- the prime minister has said that clearly in parliament,” Suga said, reiterating previous comments. “We will verify it, but that will not lead to a revision.”

Park held a meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping in The Hague yesterday, at which they discussed the new memorial at Harbin station in China to Ahn Jung Geun, a Korean nationalist who assassinated a former Japanese prime minister there in 1909. Xi said he personally ordered the building of the hall and that it was important for the bond between the people of the two countries. Park said it was “meaningful,” according to a pool report on the Blue House website.

Suga said having China and South Korea push a “one-sided” view of the incident was “not something that will contribute to the building of peace and cooperation in the region.”

To contact the reporters on this story: Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at ireynolds1@bloomberg.net; Maiko Takahashi in Tokyo at mtakahashi61@bloomberg.net

To contact the editors responsible for this story: Peter Hirschberg at phirschberg@bloomberg.net Andrew Davis, Neil Western