THE HAGUE — As Russia consolidated its hold on Crimea on Monday, forcing Ukraine to order the retreat of its forces there, President Obama and his international allies prepared to meet here in an effort to develop a strong, united response despite their diverging interests in dealing with the Kremlin.

After Russia’s invasion of Crimea and the lightning annexation of the peninsula by President Vladimir V. Putin last week, Mr. Obama’s decision to convene the leaders of several European countries, along with Canada and Japan, brought the nations — once again the Group of 7, without Russia — together for the first time since the crisis in Ukraine upended the stability and security of Europe.

As the leaders assembled, however, the authorities in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, said that the defense ministry had ordered the withdrawal of the country’s troops stationed in Crimea who have been the target of a sustained Russian campaign to first blockade and then take over scores of military bases.
The latest takeover came before dawn on Monday, the defense ministry in Kiev said, when Russian troops backed by helicopters and armored personnel carriers fired stun grenades as the Ukrainian flag was hauled down at the Feodosia naval base — the third capture of a military base in three days.

Some Ukrainian military personnel were driven off in trucks with their arms pinioned and up to 80 troops were taken prisoner, the defense ministry said.

The episode, and its timing, sent a clear signal to Mr. Obama and to other leaders here that their diplomacy had not curbed the Kremlin’s determination to deepen its control of Crimea. The order to Ukrainian soldiers to withdraw seemed to show that Moscow was creating facts on the ground to counter outsiders’ diplomacy.

Susan E. Rice, Mr. Obama’s national security adviser, acknowledged that the president’s weeklong trip, including a meeting with Pope Francis on Thursday and a stop in Saudi Arabia on Friday, would be overshadowed by Ukraine and the need to press for Western unity. She expressed confidence that the meeting here on Monday would “deepen” coordination.

But as the United States ratchets up economic sanctions against Russia, it may be difficult for Mr. Obama to bring along European allies, who are more economically intertwined with Russia and who ended their own summit meeting on Friday with no detailed mention of tougher sanctions.

In an interview with the Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant published before his arrival Monday morning in Amsterdam, Mr. Obama said that he would reassure European allies that no one should “ever question the commitment of the United States to the security of Europe.” He vowed to keep increasing the economic pressure on Russia.

“These aren’t easy choices. We would have preferred it not come to this. But Russia’s actions are simply unacceptable,” Mr. Obama said. “There have to be consequences. And if Russia continues to escalate the situation, we need to be prepared to impose a greater cost.”

Convincing the nations of Europe to stay with him may be Mr. Obama’s most urgent task as he arrives here for a two-day summit meeting aimed at eliminating or securing nuclear material around the globe. Mr. Obama will meet with leaders of Europe, Canada and Japan on Monday evening to discuss the crisis.

“We cannot have countries purporting to annex parts of independent nations,” Mr. Obama said in the interview. “The international law and principles at the heart of our international system have to mean something.”

A central question seems to be whether Western unity is more than a veneer of principled language and so-far mild sanctions, which, in the absence of any hint of a military response, has made the West seem powerless.

“It will expose the limitations within the European Union,” said Michael J. Geary, an assistant professor of modern Europe at Maastricht University in the Netherlands, noting that the bloc needs consensus among 28 member states that have disparate ways of dealing with Russia.

NATO and the European Union have been shocked but seem galvanized by Russia’s abrupt abandonment of the rules of cooperation and territorial integrity that have governed East-West relations for decades.

That concern was made clear on Sunday by Gen. Philip M. Breedlove, the American officer who is the supreme commander of NATO’s forces in Europe.

Having praised the efficiency of the Russian move into Crimea — it went, he said, “very much like clockwork” — the general noted that the Russian force now at Ukraine’s eastern border is “very, very sizable, and very, very ready. You cannot defend against that unless you are there.”

“We have continued to try to make a partner of Russia,” the general told security experts at a meeting in Brussels organized by the German Marshall Fund of the United States. “And now it’s very clear that Russia is acting much more like an adversary than a partner.”

As the West has struggled to respond cohesively, Russia has moved assertively to establish control in Crimea. On Sunday, a base in Belbek was eerily quiet just 24 hours after it was seized in a dramatic incursion by Russian special-forces troops and two armored vehicles.

A commander of the base, Yuli Mamchur, was apparently being held along with other base leaders in Sevastopol, somewhere near the headquarters of Russia’s Black Sea Fleet, said his wife, Larisa Mamchur. She added that most Ukrainian personnel there had been sent home to pack and prepare for relocation to mainland Ukraine.

Even as Russian forces were storming two bases in Crimea on Saturday, though, the Kremlin agreed to allow monitors from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to start a six-month mission in Ukraine — though not in Crimea. The move seemed intended to ease fears that Russian forces would push into eastern or southern Ukraine.

In Berlin on Monday, the government spokesman Steffen Seibert said Mr. Putin had confirmed in a conversation with Chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday that the mission to Ukraine was “a welcome step.” But he added: “The discussion did not yield any progress on other issues.”

But Mr. Putin’s recent record of first coy, then bold moves has put Mr. Obama and his European allies on guard, even as they have struggled to coordinate. Caught flat-footed by the initial infiltration of Crimea, the United States seems increasingly alarmed about the 20,000 Russian troops that have massed on the border with eastern Ukraine.

The other members of the Group of 7 economic partnership hardly have interests identical with those of the United States, and in many ways they are divided even among themselves, complicating any effort to draw a firmer line with Moscow.

Mr. Obama’s sanctions, announced last week, were aimed at sowing pain among members of a Russian economic and political elite who owe their wealth and loyalties to Mr. Putin. But the sanctions were also targeted to minimize disruption to the global economy and to avoid further jeopardizing already meek Russian cooperation on issues like the war in Syria, Iran’s nuclear program, the Middle East and North Korea.
 
For European countries, the risk of wider conflict with Russia is even graver. Britain hosts Russian billionaires and their money; Germany gets about one-third of its energy from Russia and sells it machinery and cars; France is in the process of delivering sophisticated attack ships to the Kremlin; and Italy depends on Russia for some 28 percent of its energy.

Canada’s prime minister, Stephen Harper, on Saturday became the first Group of 7 leader to visit Ukraine since the crisis erupted. Japan has an interest in whether China — whose president, Xi Jinping, began his first European tour this weekend — draws closer to Moscow or even secures Russian energy supplies in the event that the Kremlin cuts off Western Europe.

While there is scant appetite for a military response, the newer members of NATO — former Warsaw Pact members like Poland, or the three ex-Soviet Baltic states — have anxiously sought reaffirmation that the alliance will protect them if, for example, Russia expands its operations in Crimea.

One of many complicating factors is the state of Ukraine itself. Since the Soviet Union fell apart in 1991, Ukraine has failed to muster strong armed forces — a point underscored when its troops abandoned military bases in Crimea last week.

The acting government in Kiev has also been slow to reach out to Russian speakers and specifically to the East. The interim prime minister, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, did give a speech in Russian last week offering broad autonomy to Ukraine’s eastern regions, which are vital to the country’s weak economy, even with rundown coal mines and outmoded factories.

Constanze Stelzenmüller, a senior trans-Atlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States, co-wrote a paper published last week on the crisis and its many implications. “This isn’t going to be easy,” she said over the weekend. “And it’s going to take a long time.”