Congress general secretary Digvijay Singh on Monday said the present state of affairs in BJP gave an impression that only their Prime Ministerial nominee Narendra Modi prevails over everything in the party.

“The way in which things were happening in the BJP these days indicated that the party had no say and only what Narendra Modi wanted prevailed there,” Digvijay told reporters during an informal chat at his residence here. When asked if Brahmins were being reportedly sidelined in the BJP, he alleged that not only Brahmins, but “all those who opposed Narendra Modi were being given short shrift.”

The senior Congress leader also alleged that the BJP had no faith in Hindu religion but exploited it for political purposes. “I am a devout Hindu, but have never used religion for political purposes,” he said, adding that the “BJP never accorded the status of God to Lord Rama, but only accepted him as a ‘Maryada Purush’ (man of self control).”

Singh said he viewed the BJP as a “fascist” party and this was best indicated by the way in which it was trying to promote Modi. “Under fascism, a small thing is constantly glorified and even given the exalted status of a God, something which is happening in the case of Modi,” he said.

Criticising the use of the “Har Har Modi” slogan in Varanasi by supporters of the BJP’s prime ministerial nominee, Digvijay said it “amounted to insult of Hinduism.” “It is strange that even after the BJP proclaimed that it had nothing do with this slogan, at least one minister in BJP was still saying it,” he said without taking any name.

BJP had on Sunday distanced itself from the “Har Har Modi” slogan and said its official slogan was “Ab ki baar, Modi sarkar” (This time, Modi government). After Dwarka Peeth Shankaracharya Swaroopanand Saraswati had raised objections to the slogan “Har Har Modi” and registered a strong protest with RSS asking to stop such “vyakti puja” (eulogising of an individual), Modi had tweeted requesting his supporters not to use the slogan in future.

Stating that he never had faith in opinion polls, Singh alleged that they can be manipulated with anyone having money to do so.